Rich Dad Poor Dad 


Robert T. Kiyosaki 


Rich Oad Poor Oad 


Author: Robert T. Kiyosaki 
Category: Art of Living 
Website: http://motsach.info 
Date: 28-October-2012 


Page 1/114 


http : / / motsach . info 




Rich Dad Poor Dad 


Robert T. Kiyosaki 


INTRODUCTION 


There is a Need 

Does school prepare children for the real world? “Study hard and get good grades and you will 
find a high-paying job with great benefits,” my parents used to say. Their goal in life was to 
provide a college education for my older sister and me, so that we would have the greatest 
chance for success in life. When I finally earned my diploma in 1976-graduating with honors, 
and near the top of my class, in accounting from Florida State University-my parents had 
realized their goal. It was the crowning achievement of their lives. In accordance with the 
“Master Plan,” I was hired by a “Big 8” accounting firm, and I looked forward to a long career 
and retirement at an early age. 

My husband, Michael, followed a similar path. We both came from hardworking families, of 
modest means but with strong work ethics. Michael also graduated with honors, but he did it 
twice: first as an engineer and then from law school. He was quickly recruited by a prestigious 
Washington, D.C., law firm that specialized in patent law, and his future seemed bright, career 
path well-defined and early retirement guaranteed. 

Although we have been successful in our careers, they have not turned out quite as we 
expected. We both have changed positions several times-for all the right reasons-but there are 
no pension plans vesting on our behalf. Our retirement funds are growing only through our 
individual contributions. 

Michael and I have a wonderful marriage with three great children. As I write this, two are in 
college and one is just beginning high school. We have spent a fortune making sure our children 
have received the best education available. 

One day in 1996, one of my children came home disillusioned with school. He was bored and 
tired of studying. “Why should I put time into studying subjects I will never use in real life?” he 
protested. 

Without thinking, I responded, “Because if you don’t get good grades, you won’t get into 
college.” “Regardless of whether 1 go to college,” he replied, “I’m going to be rich.” 

“If you don’t graduate from college, you won’t get a good job,” I responded with a tinge of panic 
and motherly concern. “And if you don’t have a good job, how do you plan to get rich?” 

My son smirked and slowly shook his head with mild boredom. We have had this talk many 
times before. He lowered his head and rolled his eyes. My words of motherly wisdom were 
falling on deaf ears once again. 

Though smart and strong-willed, he has always been a polite and respectful young man. 

