Rich Dad Poor Dad 


Robert T. Kiyosaki 


Rich Oad Poor Oad 


Author: Robert T. Kiyosaki 
Category: Art of Living 
Website: http://motsach.info 
Date: 28-October-2012 


Page 1/114 


http : / / motsach . info 




Rich Dad Poor Dad 


Robert T. Kiyosaki 


INTRODUCTION 


There is a Need 

Does school prepare children for the real world? “Study hard and get good grades and you will 
find a high-paying job with great benefits,” my parents used to say. Their goal in life was to 
provide a college education for my older sister and me, so that we would have the greatest 
chance for success in life. When I finally earned my diploma in 1976-graduating with honors, 
and near the top of my class, in accounting from Florida State University-my parents had 
realized their goal. It was the crowning achievement of their lives. In accordance with the 
“Master Plan,” I was hired by a “Big 8” accounting firm, and I looked forward to a long career 
and retirement at an early age. 

My husband, Michael, followed a similar path. We both came from hardworking families, of 
modest means but with strong work ethics. Michael also graduated with honors, but he did it 
twice: first as an engineer and then from law school. He was quickly recruited by a prestigious 
Washington, D.C., law firm that specialized in patent law, and his future seemed bright, career 
path well-defined and early retirement guaranteed. 

Although we have been successful in our careers, they have not turned out quite as we 
expected. We both have changed positions several times-for all the right reasons-but there are 
no pension plans vesting on our behalf. Our retirement funds are growing only through our 
individual contributions. 

Michael and I have a wonderful marriage with three great children. As I write this, two are in 
college and one is just beginning high school. We have spent a fortune making sure our children 
have received the best education available. 

One day in 1996, one of my children came home disillusioned with school. He was bored and 
tired of studying. “Why should I put time into studying subjects I will never use in real life?” he 
protested. 

Without thinking, I responded, “Because if you don’t get good grades, you won’t get into 
college.” “Regardless of whether 1 go to college,” he replied, “I’m going to be rich.” 

“If you don’t graduate from college, you won’t get a good job,” I responded with a tinge of panic 
and motherly concern. “And if you don’t have a good job, how do you plan to get rich?” 

My son smirked and slowly shook his head with mild boredom. We have had this talk many 
times before. He lowered his head and rolled his eyes. My words of motherly wisdom were 
falling on deaf ears once again. 

Though smart and strong-willed, he has always been a polite and respectful young man. 

“Mom,” he began. It was my turn to be lectured. “Get with the times! Look around; the richest 
people didn’t get rich because of their educations. Look at Michael Jordan and Madonna. Even 
Bill Gates, who dropped out of Harvard, founded Microsoft; he is now the richest man in 


Page 2/114 


http : / / motsach . info 


Rich Dad Poor Dad 


Robert T. Kiyosaki 


America, and he’s still in his 30s. There is a baseball pitcher who makes more than $4 million a 
year even though he has been labeled ‘mentally challenged.’ ” 

There was a long silence between us. It was dawning on me that 1 was giving my son the same 
advice my parents had given me. The world around us has changed, but the advice hasn’t. 

Getting a good education and making good grades no longer ensures success, and nobody 
seems to have noticed, except our children. 

“Mom,” he continued, “I don’t want to work as hard as you and dad do. You make a lot of 
money, and we live in a huge house with lots of toys. If I follow your advice, I'll wind up like you, 
working harder and harder only to pay more taxes and wind up in debt. There is no job security 
anymore; I know all about downsizing and rightsizing. I also know that college graduates today 
earn less than you did when you graduated. Look at doctors. They don’t make nearly as much 
money as they used to. I know I can’t rely on Social Security or company pensions for 
retirement. I need new answers.” 

He was right. He needed new answers, and so did I. My parents’ advice may have worked for 
people born before 1945, but it may be disastrous for those of us born into a rapidly changing 
world. No longer can I simply say to my children, 

“Go to school, get good grades, and look for a safe, secure job.” 

I knew I had to look for new ways to guide my children’s education. 

As a mother as well as an accountant, I have been concerned by the lack of financial education 
our children receive in school. Many of today’s youth have credit cards before they leave high 
school, yet they have never had a course in money or how to invest it, let alone understand how 
compound interest works on credit cards. Simply put, without financial literacy and the 
knowledge of how money works, they are not prepared to face the world that awaits them, a 
world in which spending is emphasized over savings. 

When my oldest son became hopelessly in debt with his credit cards as a freshman in college, I 
not only helped him destroy the credit cards, but I also went in search of a program that would 
help me educate my children on financial matters. 

One day last year, my husband called me from his office. “I have someone I think you should 
meet,” he said. “His name is Robert Kiyosaki. He’s a businessman and investor, and he is here 
applying for a patent on an educational product. I think it’s what you have been looking for.” 

Just What I Was Looking For 

My husband, Mike, was so impressed with CASHFLOW, the new educational product that 
Robert Kiyosaki was developing, that he arranged for both of us to participate in a test of the 
prototype. Because it was an educational game, I also asked my 19-year-old daughter, who was 
a freshman at a local university, if she would like to take part, and she agreed. 

About fifteen people, broken into three groups, participated in the test. 

Mike was right. It was the educational product I had been looking for. But it had a twist: It 


Page 3/114 


http : / / motsach . info 


Rich Dad Poor Dad 


Robert T. Kiyosaki 


looked like a colorful Monopoly board with a giant well-dressed rat in the middle. Unlike 
Monopoly, however, there were two tracks: one inside and one outside. The object of the game 
was to get out of the inside track-what Robert called the “Rat Race” and reach the outer track, 
or the “Fast Track.” As Robert put it, the Fast Track simulates how rich people play in real life. 

Robert then defined the “Rat Race” for us. 

"If you look at the life of the average -educated, hard-working person, there is a similar path. The 
child is born and goes to school. The proud parents are excited because the child excels, gets 
fair to good grades, and is accepted into a college. The child graduates, maybe goes on to 
graduate school and then does exactly as programmed: looks for a safe, secure job or career. 
The child finds that job, maybe as a doctor or a lawyer, or joins the Army or works for the 
government. Generally, the child begins to make money, credit cards start to arrive in mass, and 
the shopping begins, if it already hasn’t. 

"Having money to burn, the child goes to places where other young people just like them hang 
out, and they meet people, they date, and sometimes they get married. Life is wonderful now, 
because today, both men and women work. Two incomes are bliss. They feel successful, their 
future is bright, and they decide to buy a house, a car, a television, take vacations and have 
children. The happy bundle arrives. The demand for cash is enormous. The happy couple 
decides that their careers are vitally important and begin to work harder, seeking promotions 
and raises. The raises come, and so does another child and the need for a bigger house. They 
work harder, become better employees, even more dedicated. They go back to school to get 
more specialized skills so they can earn more money. Maybe they take a second job. Their 
incomes go up, but so does the tax bracket they’re in and the real estate taxes on their new 
large home, and their Social Security taxes, and all the other taxes. They get their large 
paycheck and wonder where all the money went. They buy some mutual funds and buy 
groceries with their credit card. The children reach 5 or 6 years of age, and the need to save for 
college increases as well as the need to save for their retirement. . 

"That happy couple, born 35 years ago, is now trapped in the Rat Race for the rest of their 
working days. They work for the owners of their company, for the government paying taxes, 
and for the bank paying off a mortgage and credit cards. 

“Then, they advise their own children to ‘study hard, get good grades, and find a safe job or 
career.’ They learn nothing about money, except from those who profit from their naivete, and 
work hard all their lives. The process repeats into another hard-working generation. This is the 
‘Rat Race’.” 

The only way to get out of the “Rat Race” is to prove your proficiency at both accounting and 
investing, arguably two of the most difficult subjects to master. As a trained CPA who once 
worked for a Big 8 accounting firm, I was surprised that Robert had made the learning of these 
two subjects both fun and exciting. The process was so well disguised that while we were 
diligently working to get out of the “Rat Race,” we quickly forgot we were learning. 

Soon a product test turned into a fun afternoon with my daughter, talking about things we had 
never discussed before. As an accountant, playing a game that required an Income Statement 
and Balance Sheet was easy. So I had the time to help my daughter and the other players at my 


Page 4/114 


http : / / motsach . info 


Rich Dad Poor Dad 


Robert T. Kiyosaki 


table with concepts they did not understand. I was the first person-and the only person in the 
entire test group-to get out of the “Rat Race” that day. I was out within 50 minutes, although 
the game went on for nearly three hours. 

At my table was a banker, a business owner and a computer programmer. What greatly 
disturbed me was how little these people knew about either accounting or investing, subjects so 
important in their lives. I wondered how they managed their own financial affairs in real life. I 
could understand why my 19-year-old daughter would not understand, but these were grown 
adults, at least twice her age. 

After I was out of the “Rat Race,” for the next two hours I watched my daughter and these 
educated, affluent adults roll the dice and move their markers. Although I was glad they were all 
learning so much, I was disturbed by how much the adults did not know about the basics of 
simple accounting and investing. They had difficulty grasping the relationship between their 
Income Statement and their Balance Sheet. As they bought and sold assets, they had trouble 
remembering that each transaction could impact their monthly cash flow. I thought, how many 
millions of people are out there in the real world struggling financially, only because they have 
never been taught these subjects? 

Thank goodness they’re having fun and are distracted by the desire to win the game, I said to 
myself. After Robert ended the contest, he allowed us fifteen minutes to discuss and critique 
CASHFLOW among ourselves. 

The business owner at my table was not happy. He did not like the game. "I don’t need to know 
this,” he said out loud. “I hire accountants, bankers and attorneys to tell me about this stuff.” 

To which Robert replied, “Have you ever noticed that there are a lot of accountants who aren’t 
rich? And bankers, and attorneys, and stockbrokers and real estate brokers. They know a lot, 
and for the most part are smart people, but most of them are not rich. Since our schools do not 
teach people what the rich know, we take advice from these people. But one day, you’re 
driving down the highway, stuck in traffic, struggling to get to work, and you look over to your 
right and you see your accountant stuck in the same traffic jam. You look to your left and you 
see your banker. That should tell you something.” 

The computer programmer was also unimpressed by the game: “I can buy software to teach me 
this.” 

The banker, however, was moved. “I studied this in school-the accounting part, that is-but I 
never knew how to apply it to real life. Now I know. I need to get myself out of the ‘Rat Race.’ ” 

But it was my daughter’s comments that most touched me. “I had fun learning,” she said. “I 
learned a lot about how money really works and how to invest.” 

Then she added: “Now I know I can choose a profession for the work I want to perform and not 
because of job security, benefits or howmuch I get paid. If I learn what this game teaches, I’m 
free to do and study what my heart wants to study. . .rather than study something because 
businesses are looking for certain job skills. If I learn this, I won’t have to worry about job 
security and Social Security the way most of my classmates already do.” 


Page 5/114 


http : / / motsach . info 


Rich Dad Poor Dad 


Robert T. Kiyosaki 


I was not able to stay and talk with Robert after we had played the game, but we agreed to meet 
later to further discuss his project. I knew he wanted to use the game to help others become 
more financially sawy, and I was eager to hear more about his plans. 

My husband and I set up a dinner meeting with Robert and his wife within the next week. 
Although it was our first social get-together, we felt as if we had known each other for years. 

We found out we had a lot in common. We covered the gamut, from sports and plays to 
restaurants and socio-economic issues. We talked about the changing world. We spent a lot of 
time discussing how most Americans have little or nothing saved for retirement, as well as the 
almost bankrupt state of Social Security and Medicare. Would my children be required to pay for 
the retirement of 75 million baby boomers? We wondered if people realize how risky it is to 
depend on a pension plan. 

Robert’s primary concern was the growing gap between the haves and have nots, in America 
and around the world. A self-taught, self-made entrepreneur who traveled the world putting 
investments together, Robert was able to retire at the age of 47. He came out of retirement 
because he shares the same concern I have for my own children. He knows that the world has 
changed, but education has not changed with it. According to Robert, children spend years in an 
antiquated educational system, studying subjects they will never use, preparing for a world that 
no longer exists. 

“Today, the most dangerous advice you can give a child is ‘Go to school, get good grades and 
look for a safe secure job,’ ” he likes to say. “That is old advice, and it’s bad advice. If you could 
see what is happening in Asia, Europe, South America, you would be as concerned as I am.” 

It’s bad advice, he believes, “because if you want your child to have a financially secure future, 
they can’t play by the old set of rules. It’s just too risky.” 

I asked him what he meant by “old rules?” . 

“People like me play by a different set of rules from what you play by,” he said. “What happens 
when a corporation announces a downsizing?” 

“People get laid off,” I said. "Families are hurt. Unemployment goes 

M 

up. 

“Yes, but what happens to the company, in particular a public company on the stock 
exchange?” 

“The price of the stock usually goes up when the downsizing is announced,” I said. “The market 
likes it when a company reduces its labor costs, either through automation or just consolidating 
the labor force in general.” 

“That’s right,” he said. “And when stock prices go up, people like me, the shareholders, get 
richer. That is what I mean by a different set of rules. Employees lose; owners and investors 
win.” 

Robert was describing not only the difference between an employee and employer, but also the 


Page 6/114 


http : / / motsach . info 


Rich Dad Poor Dad 


Robert T. Kiyosaki 


difference between controlling your own destiny and giving up that control to someone else. 

“But it’s hard for most people to understand why that happens,” I said. “They just think it’s not 
fair.” 

“That’s why it is foolish to simply say to a child, ‘Get a good education,’ ” he said. “It is foolish 
to assume that the education the school system provides will prepare your children for the world 
they will face upon graduation. Each child needs more education. Different education. And they 
need to know the rules. The different sets of rules.” 

“There are rules of money that the rich play by, and there are the rules that the other 95 
percent of the population plays by,” he said. “And the 95 percent learns those rules at home 
and in school. That is why it’s risky today to simply say to a child, ‘Study hard and look for a job.’ 
A child today needs a more sophisticated education, and the current system is not delivering the 
goods. I don’t care how many computers they put in the classroom or how much money schools 
spend. How can the education system teach a subject that it does not know?” 

So how does a parent teach their children, what the school does not? How do you teach 
accounting to a child? Won’t they get bored? And how do you teach investing when as a parent 
you yourself are risk averse? Instead of teaching my children to simply play it safe, I decided it 
was best to teach them to play it smart. 

“So how would you teach a child about money and all the things we’ve talked about?” I asked 
Robert. “How can we make it easy for parents especially when they don’t understand it 
themselves?” 

“I wrote a book on the subject, ” he said. 

“Where is it?” 

“In my computer. It’s been there for years in random pieces. I add to it occasionally but I’ve 
never gotten around to put it all together. I began writing it after my other book became a best 
seller, but I never finished the new one. It’s in pieces.” 

And in pieces it was. After reading the scattered sections, I decided the book had merit and 
needed to be shared, especially in these changing times. We agreed to co-author Robert’s book. 

I asked him how much financial information he thought a child needed. He said it would depend 
on the child. He knew at a young age that he wanted to be rich and was fortunate enough to 
have a father figure who was rich and willing to guide him. Education is the foundation of 
success, Robert said. Just as scholastic skills are vitally important, so are financial skills and 
communication skills. 

What follows is the story of Robert’s two dads, a rich one and a poor 

one, that expounds on the skills he’s developed over a lifetime. The contrast between two dads 
provides an important perspective. The book is supported, edited and assembled by me. For 
any accountants who read this book, suspend your academic book knowledge and open your 
mind to the theories Robert presents. Although many of them challenge the very fundamentals 
of generally accepted accounting principles, they provide a valuable insight into the way true 


Page 7/114 


http : / / motsach . info 


Rich Dad Poor Dad 


Robert T. Kiyosaki 


investors analyze their investment decisions. 

When we as parents advise our children to “go to school, study hard and get a good job,” we 
often do that out of cultural habit. It has always been the right thing to do. When I met Robert, 
his ideas initially startled me. Having been raised by two fathers, he had been taught to strive for 
two different goals. His educated dad advised him to work for a corporation. His rich dad 
advised him to own the corporation. Both life paths required education, but the subjects of study 
were completely different. His educated dad encouraged Robert to be a smart person. His rich 
dad encouraged Robert to know how to hire smart people. 

Having two dads caused many problems. Robert’s real dad was the superintendent of education 
for the state of Hawaii. By the time Robert was 16, the threat of “If you don’t get good grades, 
you won’t get a good job” had little effect. He already knew his career path was to own 
corporations, not to work for them. In fact, if it had not been for a wise and persistent high 
school guidance counselor, Robert might not have gone on to college. He admits that. He was 
eager to start building his assets, but finally agreed that the college education would also be a 
benefit to him. 

Truthfully, the ideas in this book are probably too far fetched and radical for most parents today. 
Some parents are having a hard enough time simply keeping their children in school. But in 
light of our changing times, as parents we need to be open to new and bold ideas. To 
encourage children to be employees is to advise your children to pay more than their fair share 
of taxes over a lifetime, with little or no promise of a pension. And it is true that taxes are a 
person’s greatest expense. In fact, most families work from January to mid-May for the 
government just to cover their taxes. New ideas are needed and this book provides them. 

Robert claims that the rich teach their children differently. They teach their children at home, 
around the dinner table. These ideas may notbe the ideas you choose to discuss with your 
children, but thank you for looking at them. And I advise you to keep searching. In my opinion, 
as a mom and a CPA, the concept of simply getting good grades and finding a good job is an old 
idea. We need to advise our children with a greater degree of sophistication. We need new 
ideas and different education. Maybe telling our children to strive to be good employees while 
also striving to own their own investment corporation is not such a bad idea. 

It is my hope as a mother that this book helps other parents. It is Robert’s hope to inform 
people that anyone can achieve prosperity if they choose so. If today you are a gardener or a 
janitor or even unemployed, you have the ability to educate yourself and teach those you love to 
take care of themselves financially. Remember that financial intelligence is the mental process 
via which we solve our financial problems. 

Today we are facing global and technological changes as great or even greater than those ever 
faced before. No one has a crystal ball, but one thing is for certain: Changes lie ahead that are 
beyond our reality. Who knows what the future brings? But whatever happens, we have two 
fundamental choices: play it safe or play it smart by preparing, getting educated and awakening 
your own and your children’s financial genius. - Sharon Lechter 

For a FREE AUDIO REPORT “What My Rich Dad Taught Me About Money” all you have to do 
is visit our special website at www.richdadbooki.com and the report is yours free. 


Page 8/114 


http : / / motsach . info 


Rich Dad Poor Dad 


Robert T. Kiyosaki 


Thank you 

Rich Dad, Poor Dad 


Page 9/114 


http : / / motsach . info 


Rich Dad Poor Dad 


Robert T. Kiyosaki 


CHAPTER ONE 


Rich Dad, Poor Dad 
As narrated by Robert Kiyosaki 

I had two fathers, a rich one and a poor one. One was highly educated and intelligent; he had a 
Ph.D. and completed four years of undergraduate work in less than two years. He then went on 
to Stanford University, the University of Chicago, and Northwestern University to do his 
advanced studies, all on full financial scholarships. The other father never finished the eighth 
grade . 

Both men were successful in their careers, working hard all their lives. Both earned substantial 
incomes. Yet one struggled financially all his life. The other would become one of the richest 
men in Hawaii. One died leaving tens of millions of dollars to his family, charities and his church. 
The other left bills to be paid. 

Both men were strong, charismatic and influential. Both men offered me advice, but they did 
not advise the same things. Both men believed strongly in education but did not recommend the 
same course of study. 

If 1 had had only one dad, I would have had to accept or reject his advice. Having two dads 
advising me offered me the choice of contrasting points of view; one of a rich man and one of a 
poor man. 

Instead of simply accepting or rejecting one or the other, I found myself thinking more, 
comparing and then choosing for myself. 

The problem was, the rich man was not rich yet and the poor man not yet poor. Both were just 
starting out on their careers, and both were struggling with money and families. But they had 
very different points of view about the subject of money. 

For example, one dad would say, “The love of money is the root of all evil.” The other, “The 
lack of money is the root of all evil.” 

As a young boy, having two strong fathers both influencing me was difficult. I wanted to be a 
good son and listen, but the two fathers did not say the same things. The contrast in their points 
of view, particularly where money was concerned, was so extreme that I grew curious and 
intrigued. I began to start thinking for long periods of time about what each was saying. 

Much of my private time was spent reflecting, asking myself questions such as, “Why does he 
say that?” and then asking the same question of the other dad’s statement. It would have been 
much easier to simply say, “Yeah, he’s right. I agree with that.” Or to simply reject the point of 
view by saying, “The old man doesn’t know what he’s talking about.” Instead, having two dads 
whom I loved forced me to think and ultimately choose a way of thinking for myself. As a 
process, choosing for myself turned out to be much more valuable in the long run, rather than 
simply accepting or rejecting a single point of view. 


Page 10/114 


http : / / motsach . info 


Rich Dad Poor Dad 


Robert T. Kiyosaki 


One of the reasons the rich get richer, the poor get poorer, and the middle class struggles in 
debt is because the subject of money is taught at home, not in school. Most of us learn about 
money from our parents. So what can a poor parent tell their child about money? They simply 
say “Stay in school and study hard.” The child may graduate with excellent grades but with a 
poor person’s financial programming and mind-set. It was learned while the child was young. 

Money is not taught in schools. Schools focus on scholastic and professional skills, but not on 
financial skills. This explains how smart bankers, doctors and accountants who earned excellent 
grades in school may still struggle financially all of their lives. Our staggering national debt is due 
in large part to highly educated politicians and government officials making financial decisions 
with little or no training on the subject of money. 

I often look ahead to the new millennium and wonder what will happen when we have millions 
of people who will need financial and medical assistance. They will be dependent on their 
families or the government for financial support. What will happen when Medicare and Social 
Security run out of money? How will a nation survive if teaching children about money continues 
to be left to parents-most of whom will be, or already are, poor? 

Because I had two influential fathers, I learned from both of them. I had to think about each 
dad’s advice, and in doing so, I gained valuable insight into the power and effect of one’s 
thoughts on one’s life. For example, one dad had a habit of saying, “I can’t afford it.” The other 
dad forbade those words to be used. He insisted I say, “How can I afford it?” One is a 
statement, and the other is a question. One lets you off the hook, and the other forces you to 
think. My soon-to-be-rich dad would explain that by automatically saying the words “I can’t 
afford it,” your brain stops working. By asking the question “How can I afford it?” your brain is 
put to work. He did not mean buy everything you wanted. He was fanatical about exercising 
your mind, the most powerful computer in the world. “My brain gets stronger every day because 
I exercise it. The stronger it gets, the more money I can make.” He believed that automatically 
saying “I can’t afford it” was a sign of mental laziness. 

Although both dads worked hard, I noticed that one dad had a habit of putting his brain to sleep 
when it came to money matters, and the other had a habit of exercising his brain. The long- 
term result was that one dad grew stronger financially and the other grew weaker. It is not much 
different from a person who goes to the gym to exercise on a regular basis versus someone who 
sits on the couch watching television. Proper physical exercise increases your chances for 
health, and proper mental exercise increases your chances for wealth. Laziness decreases both 
health and wealth. 

My two dads had opposing attitudes in thought. One dad thought that the rich should pay more 
in taxes to take care of those less fortunate. The other said, “Taxes punish those who produce 
and reward those who don’t produce.” 

One dad recommended, “Study hard so you can find a good company to work for.” The other 
recommended, “Study hard so you can find a good company to buy.” One dad said, “The 
reason I’m not rich is because 1 have you kids.” The other said, “The reason I must be rich is 
because I have you kids.” One encouraged talking about money and business at the dinner table. 
The other forbade the subject of money to be discussed over a meal. One said, “When it comes 


Page 11/114 


http : / / motsach . info 


Rich Dad Poor Dad 


Robert T. Kiyosaki 


to money, play it safe, don’t take risks.” The other said, “Learn to manage risk.” 

One believed, “Our home is our largest investment and our greatest asset.” The other believed, 
“My house is a liability, and if your house is your largest investment, you’re in trouble.” 

Both dads paid their bills on time, yet one paid his bills first while the other paid his bills last. 

One dad believed in a company or the government taking care of you and your needs. He was 
always concerned about pay raises, retirement plans, medical benefits, sick leave, vacation days 
and other perks. He was impressed with two of his uncles who joined the military and earned a 
retirement and entitlement package for life after twenty years of active service. He loved the 
idea of medical benefits and PX privileges the military provided its retirees. He also loved the 
tenure system available through the university. The idea of job protection for life and job 
benefits seemed more important, at times, than the job. He would often say, “I’ve worked hard 
for the government, and I’m entitled to these benefits.” 

The other believed in total financial self-reliance. He spoke out against the “entitlement” 
mentality and how it was creating weak and financially needy people. He was emphatic about 
being financially competent. 

One dad struggled to save a few dollars. The other simply created investments. 

One dad taught me how to write an impressive resume so I could find a good job. The other 
taught me how to write strong business and financial plans so I could create jobs. 

Being a product of two strong dads allowed me the luxury of observing the effects different 
thoughts have on one’s life. I noticed that people really do shape their life through their 
thoughts. 

For example, my poor dad always said, “I’ll never be rich.” And that prophesy became reality. 
My rich dad, on the other hand, always referred to himself as rich. He would say things like, 
“I’m a rich man, and rich people don’t do this.” Even when he was flat broke after a major 
financial setback, he continued to refer to himself as a rich man. He would cover himself by 
saying, “There is a difference between being poor and being broke. - Broke is temporary, and 
poor is eternal.” 

My poor dad would also say, “I’m not interested in money,” or “Money doesn’t matter.” My rich 
dad always said, “Money is power.” 

The power of our thoughts may never be measured or appreciated, but it became obvious to me 
as a young boy to be aware of my thoughts and how I expressed myself. I noticed that my poor 
dad was poor not because of the amount of money he earned, which was significant, but 
because of his thoughts and actions. As a young boy, having two fathers, I became acutely 
aware of being careful which thoughts I chose to adopt as my own. Whom should I listen to-my 
rich dad or my poor dad? 

Although both men had tremendous respect for education and learning, they disagreed in what 
they thought was important to learn. One wanted me to study hard, earn a degree and get a 
good job to work for money. He wanted me to study to become a professional, an attorney or 
an accountant or to go to business school for my MBA. The other encouraged me to study to be 


Page 12/114 


http : / / motsach . info 


Rich Dad Poor Dad 


Robert T. Kiyosaki 


rich, to understand how money works and to learn how to have it work for me. “I don’t work for 
money!” were words he would repeat over and over, “Money works for me!” 

At the age of 9, I decided to listen to and learn from my rich dad about money. In doing so, I 
chose not to listen to my poor dad, even though he was the one with all the college degrees. 

A Lesson From Robert Frost 

Robert Frost is my favourite poet. Although I love many of his poems, my favorite is The Road 
Not Taken. I use its lesson almost daily: 

The Road Not Taken 

Two roads diverged in a yellow wood, And sorry I could not travel both. And be one traveler, 
long I stood. And looked down one as far as I could. To where it bent in the undergrowth; 

Then took the other, as just as fair. And having perhaps the better claim, Because it was grassy 
and wanted wear. Though as for that the passing there Had worn them really about the same, 

And both that morning equally lay In leaves no step had trodden black. Oh, I kept the first for 
another day! Yet knowing how way leads onto way, I doubted if I should ever come back. 

I shall be telling this with a sigh. Somewhere ages and ages hence; Two roads diverged in a 
wood, and I took the one less traveled by, And that has made all the difference. 

Robert Frost(1916) 

And that made all the difference. 

Over the years, I have often reflected upon Robert Frost’s poem. Choosing not to listen to my 
highly educated dad’s advice and attitude about money was a painful decision, but it was a 
decision that shaped the rest of my life. 

Once I made up my mind whom to listen to, my education about money began. My rich dad 
taught me over a period of 30 years, until I was age 39. He stopped once he realized that I 
knew and fully understood what he had been trying to drum into my often thick skull. 

Money is one form of power. But what is more powerful is financial education. Money comes 
and goes, but if you have the education about how money works, you gain power over it and 
can begin building wealth. The reason positive thinking alone does not work is because most 
people went to school and never learned how money works, so they spend their lives working 
for money. 

Because I was only 9 years old when I started, the lessons my rich dad taught me were simple. 
And when it was all said and done, there were only six main lessons, repeated over 30 years. 
This book is about those six lessons, put as simply as possible as my rich dad put forth those 
lessons to me. The lessons are not meant to be answers but guideposts. Guideposts that will 
assist you and your children to grow wealthier no matter what happens in a world of increasing 
change and uncertainty. 

Lesson #1 The Rich Don’t Work for Money 


Page 13/114 


http : / / motsach . info 


Rich Dad Poor Dad 


Robert T. Kiyosaki 